# Vieques-Island-Girl
Life and history of the island and its people
Being in the right place at the wrong time and being at the right time in the right place is like watching a firefly fall on your hand to guide you on a dark path. Situations of which nobody has control and nothing have to do with magic or luck. It's just chance.
There is a small island in the Caribbean called VIEQUES also known as the Island Girl, that although part of the territory of Puerto Rico it was once completely independent,  and that independence still vibrates in the blood of many of its residents. For almost 70 years there was a constant struggle against the Navy and the Department of Defense of the United States by a group of residents who did not see with good eyes that their lands were used as a shooting range and practice with bombs dropped by airplanes and aircraft carriers not only of the Navy of the United States but of other powerful nations of the world.
I came to that island of Vieques for the first time in 1978 and as an artist I came to participate at the "Fisherman's Festival", an activity whose purpose was to let people know about the constant struggle of the fishermen to earn their daily bread as they have to faced the big war ships which occupied the most productive fishing waters which interrupted  the natural way of life of the islander and in addition to its continuous bombardment day and night contaminating the whole environment with titanium and other toxic substances.
All this unnatural events awakened in me an interest to help promote the situation of the island and its people with my art. 11 years later I found myself as a resident of in the island and the day came when my participation contributed to the historical struggle by confronting with a video camera a group of federal Navy authoritarian entities as they maneuvered behind the general population knowledge the action of evicting a family of 8 members from their humble home as they claim the house was inside territorial limits of their domain...
The hero of this story was called Carmelo. The island is Vieques known as Isla Nena, Island Girl. This is the story of Carmelo and The Island Girl.
